1
The point of view from which the passage is told is best described as that of:
A. a young adult riding a train through the small towns of the Upper Midwest.
B. a young adult preparing to move away from her hometown.
C. an adult missing the new home she has established.
D. an adult reflecting on the past and pondering the present.

2
The passage contains recurring references to all of the following EXCEPT:
F. dreams.
G. reunion scenes.
H. photographs.
J. train trips.

3
The first three paragraphs (lines 1–21) establish all of the following about the narrator EXCEPT that she is:
A. passing through a number of towns.
B. originally from Chicago.
C. traveling by train.
D. observant of the landscape.

4
It can reasonably be inferred from the passage that thenarrator thinks her hometown has:
F. improved significantly over the years.
G. made little genuine progress.
H. remained about the same as it was years ago.
J. a chance of being rebuilt as it used to be.

5
Based on the narrator’s account, all of the following were part of the past, rather than the present, in herhometown EXCEPT:
A. four-digit phone numbers.
B. the fenced-in football field.
C. free ice cream during dairy month.
D. the depot.

6
According to the narrator, which of the following businesses is relatively new to her hometown?
F. The tanning salon
G. The bait shop
H. The dry goods store
J. The used-car lot

7
When the narrator refers to the cosmonaut as “a man without a country” (lines 83–84), she is most likely directly referring to the:
A. cosmonaut’s feeling that he is now a citizen of space, not the former Soviet Union.
B. cosmonaut’s unrealized expectation that he will be treated like a hero.
C. political transformation that occurred while the cosmonaut was in space.
D. sixteen months that the cosmonaut spent in orbit around Earth.

8
Details in the passage most strongly suggest that the people meeting the narrator at the train station include:
F. her father.
G. her sister.
H. a neighbor.
J. a journalist.

9
The narrator indicates that the most significant change to her hometown has been the addition of:
A. square dancing.
B. vinyl storefronts.
C. benches on Main Street.
D. Las Vegas–style gambling.

10
According to the passage, news reports attributed the cosmonaut’s knees buckling to:
F. his gratitude at being back on Earth.
G. political changes in the world.
H. a lack of exercise.
J. his dismay at what he had seen from the space station.

11
Which of the following assumptions would be most critical for a reader to accept in order to agree fully with the author’s claims in the passage?
A. Shantytowns in the Amazon need to be relocated if the forest is to be saved.
B. Learning to make consistently good guitars requires access to the best materials available.
C. Small-scale rural producers in the Amazon can help preserve the forest by being innovative.
D. Consumers outside of the Amazon can do little to help prevent deforestation.

12
In the context of the passage, the statement “All the guitars are made from certified wood” (lines 34–35) most nearly suggests that Gomes’s workshop:
F. uses environmentally sustainable woods in its guitars.
G. isn’t doing enough to stop unnecessary deforestation in the Amazon.
H. has little chance of pleasing both musicians and environmentalists.
J. uses only traditional woods in making its guitars.

13
It can most reasonably be inferred from the passage that regarding OELA, the author feels:
A. skeptical of the workshop’s aims.
B. dismayed by the workshop’s low productivity.
C. supportive of the workshop’s goals.
D. confident that the workshop could be duplicated in other places.

14
The main purpose of the second paragraph (lines 6–18) is to:
F. draw attention to the Amazon’s tremendous population growth.
G. explain the necessity for ventures such as Gomes’s.
H. explain the presence of the Ford Foundation in the Amazon.
J. justify raising taxes to increase social services in the Amazon.

15
The main function of the fifth paragraph (lines 33–53) is to:
A. demonstrate the woodworking skills required to be a master luthier.
B. explore the limitations of science as compared to intuition.
C. outline the scientific reasons why one type of wood cannot be replaced by another.
D. show that experiments led to the discovery of good substitutes for rare woods.

16
The passage notes all of the following as problems that the fledgling Amazon guitar industry has experienced EXCEPT that:
F. glue on the guitars sometimes doesn’t hold.
G. the wood used may crack in drier climates.
H. woods usable for guitars have become extinct.
J. buyers resist guitars made with nontraditional woods.

17
The passage indicates that, as a group, the OELA students may impact the survival of the rain forests because most of them:
A. care deeply enough about music to spend their lives making musical instruments.
B. will return to their homes and spread their environmental knowledge.
C. are willing to endure personal hardships in order to use their new skills.
D. will have political careers after they return home.

18
In the passage, Gomes indicates that of the wood cut in the Amazon rain forest each year, approximately how
much wood is wasted?
F. One-fourth
G. One-third
H. One-half
J. Two-thirds

19
The passage states that all of the following are woods traditionally used for making stringed instrumentsEXCEPT:
A. Aniba canellila.
B. rosewood.
C. Brazilian mahogany.
D. ebony.

20
According to the passage, when an OELA student is “adopted,” he or she receives:
F. tuition.
G. room and board.
H. food and clothing.
J. a musical instrument.

21
The passage is best described as being told from the point of view of a philosopher who is:
A. discussing metaphysical questions that have troubled philosophers since the time of Descartes.
B. presenting in chronological order the key events in his thirty-year professional career.
C. reflecting on his own early, developing interest in philosophy and in scholarship generally.
D. advising professional educators on how to get more students to study philosophy.

22
Based on the passage, which of the following was most likely the first to engage the author’s passionate interest?
F. Drumming
G. Philosophy
H. Chemistry
J. Butterflies

23
The main purpose of the last paragraph is to: 
A. reveal the enduring impact of Mr. Marsh’s lessons on the author.
B. acknowledge that the author came to doubt some of Mr. Marsh’s teachings.
C. describe a typical class as taught by Mr. Marsh.
D. present a biographical sketch of Mr. Marsh.

24
The passage indicates that the man in the book-cover photograph represents:
F. Descartes, wondering what could be known.
G. Mr. Marsh, deep in scholarly thought.
H. the author at age seventeen, thinking about enrolling in college.
J. the author at age eighteen, contemplating a philosophical issue.

25
The author mentions Melody Maker, the top 20, and articles about musicians primarily to suggest that his:
A. early interest in music has remained with him to the present.
B. time spent playing music should instead have been spent reading.
C. fascination with pop music and musicians gave focus to his life for a time.
D. commitment to study enabled him to perfect his drumming technique.

26
In the third paragraph (lines 36–56), the author most nearly characterizes the energy he refers to as:
F. potent yet difficult to channel in a constructive way.
G. powerful and typically leading to destructive results.
H. delicate and inevitably wasted in trivial undertakings.
J. gentle yet capable of uniting people who have different interests.

27
Viewed in the context of the passage, the statement in lines 55–56 is most likely intended to suggest that:
A. schools should require students to take philosophy courses.
B. students can become passionate when learning about science in school.
C. schools need to keep searching for ways to tap into students’ deeply held interests.
D. students should resolve to take school courses that interest them.

28
The author calls pen and paper “rudimentary tools” (line 80) as part of his argument that:
F. the use of computers has made the use of pen and paper obsolete.
G. students should become skilled with pen and paper before moving on to better tools.
H. while writing with pen and paper can be pleasant, it can also be physically painful.
J. although seemingly simple, pen and paper allow people to perform great feats.

29
In the context of the passage, lines 17–23 are best described as presenting images of:
A. gloom, tension, and fascination.
B. anger, bitterness, and betrayal.
C. stillness, peacefulness, and relaxation.
D. frustration, surprise, and satisfaction.

30
Which of the following does NOT reasonably describe the transition the author presents in lines 80–84?
F. Precious to commonplace
G. Fleeting to permanent
H. Invisible to visible
J. Private to public

31
One of the main ideas established by the passage is that:
A. researchers have nearly exhausted their resources after spending decades investigating the Sargasso Sea.
B. significant gaps still remain in researchers’ understanding of the life cycle of eels.
C. eels live their entire lives in the Sargasso Sea, but no one has ever seen them there.
D. female eels turn into silver eels toward the end of their lives.

32
Learning about which of the following had the largest impact on scientists’ current understanding of where eels breed?
F. The direction in which ocean currents carry eel larvae
G. The relationship of the yellow eel stage to the silver eel stage
H. Schmidt’s discovery of eel larvae in the Sargasso Sea
J. The adult eels found in the stomachs of other fish 

33
The main purpose of the fourth paragraph (lines 34–47) is to describe the: 
A. eels’ transition from freshwater to the ocean.
B. method of determining the age of eels.
C. complexity of the Mississippi River system.
D. river stage of the eel life cycle.

34
The passage states that the Sargasso Sea is set off from the rest of the Atlantic Ocean by:
F. the Azores.
G. several Caribbean countries.
H. powerful winds.
J. strong currents.

35
The passage notes that the Sargasso Sea includes:
A. the eastern North American shore.
B. the Bermuda Triangle.
C. certain coastal estuaries.
D. the mouth of the Mississippi River.

36
As it is used in line 13, the word popular most nearly means:
F. well liked.
G. commonly known.
H. scientifically accepted.
J. most admired.

37
As it is used in line 45, the word read most nearly means to:
A. learn from print.
B. observe.
C. think about.
D. predict.

38
The passage indicates that female eels’ pupils expand and turn blue because the eels:
F. must adapt to see in an environment with much less light than they are used to.
G. are about to undergo a change in their blood chemistry.
H. no longer need to be able to recognize food sources since they have stopped eating.
J. need to be able to recognize the male eels that will fertilize their eggs.

39
The passage most strongly emphasizes that the process of osmosis is necessary for the eels’ transition from:
A. shallower to deeper water.
B. feeding to nonfeeding.
C. immature to mature form.
D. elver to yellow eel.

40
According to the passage, which of the following characteristics of the eel larvae found by Schmidt provided the best evidence that the larvae were hatched in the Sargasso Sea?
F. Size
G. Shape
H. Color
J. Species