Another point of view from which the passage is told is best described as that of:	A. a young boy with a passion for opera.	B. the daughter of an extremely busy father.	"C. an omniscient narrator, who knows the thoughts of the characters."	D. an unnamed narrator who relates events from Mr. Hosokawa’s perspective.
The passage establishes all of the following about Mr. Hosokawa EXCEPT that he:	A. heard his first opera on his eleventh birthday.	B. appreciated Eugene Onegin.	C. rarely went out into the world.	D. didn’t understand the plot of Rigoletto when he saw the opera performed.
"Which of the following statements best characterizes Kiyomi’s relationship with her father, as it is presented in the passage?"	A. She wants to please him.	B. She shares his fondness for opera.	C. She feels increasingly distant from him.	D. She enjoys spending time with him.
"In the passage, the highlighted text primarily serves to:"	A. suggest that the opera was overshadowed by unpleasant weather and bad seats.	"B. describe the typical, rainy October weather in Tokyo in the mid-1950s."	C. offer sensory details that help set the stage for the important experience to be related.	"D. imply that for Mr. Hosokawa, the train trip was more memorable than the opera."
Mr. Hosokawa’s reaction to the Rigolettoperformance is most clearly reflected in the way Mr. Hosokawa:	A. “climbed the long set of stairs to their row” (see highlighted text).	B. “bowed and begged to be excused by every person who stood to let them pass into their seats” (see highlighted text).	C. “waited . . . without speaking” (see highlighted text).	D. “reached out for his father’s hand” (see highlighted text).
The passage indicates that Kiyomi ultimately decided on the CD by Coss because Kiyomi:	A. knew Coss was one of her father’s favorites.	B. was drawn to an unknown name.	C. liked how Coss’s face looked in a picture.	D. couldn’t find a Callas recording.
The highlighted phrase dizzying void is most likely included in the passage to suggest that Mr. Hosokawa and his father:	A. feared heights.	B. sat high up in the theater.	C. sat above a section of empty seats.	D. felt emotionally drained.
The highlighted statement most nearly means that Mr. Hosokawa:	A. wanted everyone to love opera as much as he did.	B. felt that few people could learn to appreciate opera the way he had.	C. wanted everyone to experience the kind of joy that opera had brought him.	D. refused to realize that opera wasn’t for everyone.
"The highlighted statement “Such love breeds loyalty, and Mr. Hosokawa was a loyal man” most directly refers to the fact that Mr. Hosokawa:"	"A. loved his father, and that love continued to guide his life."	B. retained his appreciation for his favorite opera composers and singers.	C. was unhesitatingly loyal to the people at his workplace.	D. listened exclusively to the recordings of Callas for several years.
"According to the passage, the time Mr. Hosokawa remembered “as happily as any vacation” (see highlighted text) was:"	A. one of the few Sundays he was able to listen to an entire opera.	B. the three days he’d had the time to listen continuously to Alcina.	C. the time he saw Rigoletto with his father.	D. the sick days he took off from work when he wasn’t really ill.
