1
The main character of the passage can best be described as a:
A. tourist looking for adventure.
B. traveler gathering information for an animal story.
C. scientist seeking evidence for her life’s work.
D. scientist researching an astronomy book.

2
The main purpose of the third paragraph (lines 13-19) is to:
F. refute romantic ideas about starships
G. explain how space travel creates litter
H. indicate that traveling in space is like poetry
J. point out the importance of space-age techniques.

3
The main purpose of the seventh paragraph (lines 41-47) is to
A. explain the difference between higher and lower life forms.
B. compare modern and historical scientific tests of sentience used on Xilan.
C. indicate Lee’s great hope that earlier reports on Xilan had been inaccurate.
D. inform readers that archives from earlier research on Xilan existed.

4
In the passage, the quotation from Beebe (lines 61-64) is most likely included to make a point about the:
F. mechanics of breathing.
G. extinction of animal species.
H. last human being in the galaxy.
J. beliefs of ancient zoologists.

5
Information  in  the  passage  indicates  that  Lee’s  dream is to: 
A. find someone to share her quest.
B. find a place to house the animals left on Earth
C. be the first woman to travel on deep-space expeditions
D. discover a place where animal life abounds. 

6
In  the context  of  the passage,  the  statement  in  lines 23-24 most nearly means that:
F. unusual   individuals   choose   to   have   careers on starships.
G. starships are physically smaller in reality than they appear to be.
H.people  often  become  claustrophobic  when  working on starships.
J.  people  in  close  proximity  learn  what  to  expect from each other.

7
The  passage mentions  Xilan  having  all  of  the  follow­ing features EXCEPT:
A. mountains.
B. islands.
C. rivers.
D. volcanoes.

8
As  it  is  used  in  line  47,  the  word  crude  most  nearly means:
F. unaltered
G. primitive
H. vulgar
J. impolite.

9
The passage makes clear that animals have disappeared on Earth due to the:
A. fulfillment of Beebe’s prediction about species
B. volcanic destruction of the environment
C. vegetation being struck by lightning
D. human selection of useful animals.

10
As it is used in line 79, the word it most nearly refers to:
F. the phenomenon of life.
G. Earth’s federation.
H. time passing.
J. the night side of Xilan.

11
The main purpose of the passage is to:
A. encourage readers to embrace computer technol­ogy and abandon habits that waste paper.
B. encourage Western countries to be more aggres­ sive in promoting paper recycling.
C. acknowledge that in the modern workplace, paper still plays a vital role.
D. describe new technologies available to knowledge . workers who prefer to work on paper.

12
It  is  most  reasonable  to  infer  from  the  passage  that many of the ideas it contains are those of: 
F. Sellen and Harper before their IMF study.
G. Sellen and Harper after their IMF study.
H. Kidd  before  she  was  influenced  by  Sellen  and Harper.
J. the passage’s author before reading the research of Sellen and Harper.

13
Information  in  the passage suggests that Sellen  and Harper’s findings at the IMF conflict with  the notion that: 
A. computers  have  become  a  part  of  the  modern workplace. 
B. revising   documents   page   by   page   is   a   time­ consuming process.
C.    the use of paper has increased in the workplace in recent years.
D.    complex reports are largely the product of solitary hours at the computer.

14
Which  of  the  following  questions  is  NOT  directly answered by the passage?
F.   Who wrote The Myth of the Paperless Office ?
G.    What   are   some   examples   of   “artifacts   of   the knowledge economy”?
H. What  are  some  of  the  “affordances”  of  digital . documents?
J.    Why    is    uncoated    free-sheet    paper    the    most common kind of office paper?

15
According  to  the  passage,  the  general  but  incorrect explanation for the current rate of paper use is that:
A. the force of habit slows the transition to improved ways of performing work.
B. access to computer technology has increased on a global scale in recent years.
C. paper  is  more  affordable  than  the  software  and hardware associated with digital documents.
D. the United States has lost its focus on environmen­ tal issues in recent years.

16
Which  of  the  following  best  summarizes  the  first paragraph?
F.  Providing  statistics  on  paper  use  around  the world, it  discusses  the  unequal  access  of  countries  to modern office technology.
G.  Revealing  that the views of Sellen  overlap  with those of Harper, it examines their ten-year collabo­ ration at the IMF.
H.  Referring to a false prediction about the effects of computers on  paper use,  it alludes to  the reasons behind paper’s persistence.
J. Focusing on the years 1995 to 2000, it. reveals the widening  gulf in  the workplace between  paper users and computer users.

17
The  passage  includes  references  to  all  the  following professionals EXCEPT:
A. knowledge workers. 
B. cognitive psychologists.
C. ergonomic experts.
D. paper industry executives. 

18
It is most reasonable to infer that the process described in  lines 29-40 is one that the author of the passage views with:
F. dismay over the inefficient practices of profession­als at a prestigious institution.
G. excitement over groundbreaking approaches to document creation.
H. appreciation for the collaboration among those who produce sophisticated documents.
J. concern that document creation has become more complicated than the average worker can grasp.

19
As  it  is  used  in  line  24,  the  phrase  awash  in  most nearly means:
A. disoriented by.
B. characterized by an abundance of.
C. clearing away unwanted quantities of.
D. limited by.

20
According   to   the   passage,   piling   behavior   in   the modem  workplace  may  indicate  a  worker’s  temporary inability to:
F. spread document pages on a table.
G. categorize a document or decide on a way to use it.
H. meet with the author of a document in order to dis­ cuss possible changes to it.
J. clear space from filing cabinets.

21
Which of the following quotations from the passage best expresses the main idea of the piece?
A. “Years ago a girl handed me a note as I was leav­ ing her proud town of Albany, Texas, a tiny, lovely place far in the west of our big state” (lines 1-3).
B.   “How many other lights had I missed?” (lines 9-10)
C.   “One of the first books I loved in my life was a thick, gray anthology edited by Helen Ferris, called Favorite Poems Old and New” (lines 21—23).
D.    “Our words and images, land to land, era to era, shed light on one another” (lines 29-30).

22
It can  most reasonably  be inferred  that the narrator includes references to several poets to make clear that she:
F. appreciates a wide range of poetry.
G. usually reads poetry that was written by one of the poets mentioned.
H. prefers reading poetry anthologies to reading the full-length works by a single poet.
J. prefers Syrian poets to American poets such as Carl Sandburg or Emily Dickinson.

23
It can  reasonably  be inferred  that the narrator’s per­ spective on poetry is most different from that of which of the following people?
A. girl in Albany, Texas (lines 1-6)
B. Muhammad al Maghut (lines 32-34)
C. The teachers (lines 37-40)
D. The students (lines 59-63)

24
The narrator’s statement in  lines 18-21  most nearly means that she feels connected to people simply through:
F. knowing the details of their family history
G. conversing with them occasionally
H. being aware of their existence
J. teaching them about poetry.

25
As it is used in line 31, the word shadows most nearly means: 
A. outlines.
B. reflections.
C. spirits.
D. barriers

26
As it is used in lines 53-54, the phrase far away most nearly means:
F.   something that they haven’t read before.
G.   a distant goal or future study and learning.
H.  not at all a part of who they are.
J. only a minor, passing interest.

27
The narrator most strongly implies that when she pre­ sents her students with  a poem she doesn’t really understand, she invites her students to:
A. help make the poem’s single meaning clear to her.
B. make their own various interpretations.
C. analyze the poem together and as a group decide on its one true meaning.
D. disregard the meaning of the poem and instead study its structure.

28
The narrator’s statement in lines 78-81 best supports a suggestion  made earlier in  the eighth  paragraph  (lines 73-84) that poetry:
F. is, if it expresses our loss of nature, the most enlightening and relevant art of our time.
G. is often about nature, especially if it is written by Mary Oliver.
H. connects the many critical aspects of city people’s busy lives.
J. links aspects of experience that seem markedly different or distant from one another.

29
The narrator states that she was intrigued by the earli­est poems she experienced that gave her insight into all the secret territories of:
A. other countries.
B. the human spirit.
C. words and images.
D. the world of nature.

30
The narrator proposes that some people have lost the ability to find poetry inviting as a result of a focus in classrooms on poetry:
F. analysis.
G. writing.
H. recitation.
J. memorization.

31
The main idea of the passage is not only that the pres­ ence of water on Earth is crucial for life, but also that water is:
A. supplied to land through precipitation.
B. abundant in a liquid state.
C. constantly in motion.
D. a superb solvent.

32
Which  of the following  phrases most accurately describes how the hydrological cycle is portrayed in the passage?
F. Intricate and vital
G. Unpredictable and elusive
H. Crucial but undependable
J. Simple but mysterious

33
The passage most strongly supports which of the fol­ lowing inferences about the hydrological cycle?
A. It tends to progress more slowly in colder climates than in warmer climates.
B. It depends on  a greater volume of water being evaporated  than  being  returned  to  land  as rain  or snow.
C. It tends to make the deserts drier and the sea levels higher.
D. It  is  mainly  a  function  of  the  land  surface being heated by the Sun.

34
Which  of the following  is NOT  mentioned  in  the passage as directly  resulting  from evaporation or condensation?
F. Billows of clouds
G. “Steaming” oceans
H. Blankets of mountain mist
J. Sea ice in the polar seas

35
The main purpose of the last paragraph is to:
A. raise  questions  about  basic  assumptions concern­ing the hydrological cycle
B. introduce  new  theories  regarding  the  hydrological cycle.
C. illustrate  a  primary  function  of  the  hydrological cycle.
D. speculate  about  unknown  functions  of  the  hydro- logical cycle.

36
According to the passage, what percent of Earth’s total water is present in  the atmosphere at any  particular moment?
F. Between 1 and 5 percent
G. About 1 percent
H. A tenth of 1 percent
J. A thousandth of 1 percent

37
As it is used in line 9, the word uniformly most nearly means:
A. recurrently.
B. evenly.
C. simply.
D. inconspicuously.

38
According  to  the passage,  the atmosphere acquires most of the water that later falls as rain from which of the following sources?
F.   Polar ice sheets
G. The sea surface
H. Land surfaces in the tropics
J. Freshwater lakes and rivers

39
Based on the passage, which of the following can most reasonably  be inferred  about air whose humidity has reached the saturation vapor pressure?
A. It will no longer absorb additional water.
B. It will cause the oceans to stop absorbing carbon dioxide.
C. It will begin to absorb nutrients such as nitrates and phosphates.
D. It will not produce clouds or mist.

40
Based on the passage, the role of water in biogeochem­ical cycling can best be described as:
F. competitive
G. peripheral
H. facilitative
J. illustrative